# SNMP-based Anomaly Detection
Anomaly detection program based on SNMP data. Using an XGBoost model. Trained with SNMP-MIB dataset.
Able to detect 6 types of network attack.
- TCP-SYN Flood
- ICMP-ECHO Flood
- UDP Flood
- HTTP Flood (unconfirmed)
- Slowloris
- Slowpost

Configure ```config.ini``` to set SNMP host address, community string, data flow interval, and log clearing interval before running the program.

To run the program, simply execute ```# python3 xgb-0.1.03r2.py``` (make sure to keep the adjacent files in the same directory in order for it to work).

This program outputs its verdict to a log manually accessible at ```/var/log/xgb_result.log```, and a debug log filled with somewhat useless information manually accessible at ```/var/log/xgb_debug-0.1.03.log```.

A streamlit-based dashboard is also available, showing the attack log in table and graph format, also SNMP metric values in table and graph format. Streamlit is required to run this dashboard, you can get streamlit by running the following command:

```pip install streamlit```


Then to run the dash you can execute the following command:

```# streamlit run dash-0.1.03r5.py```


Miscellaneous csv files are also generated by the program, generating ```xgb-0.1.03.csv``` that contains raw unprocessed SNMP values followed by the prediction class, ```diff-0.1.03.csv``` that contains processed SNMP values followed by the prediction class, and ```usage-0.1.03.csv``` that contains timestamps, prediction time, CPU load used by process, RAM usage, followed by the prediction class.


Requirements:
- pandas
- numpy==1.26.4 (<2.0.0)
- scikit-learn
- joblib
- configparser
- pysnmp
- streamlit
- plotly.express
- psutil
- datetime

